

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis | Spatial History Project — Mapping the Republic of Letters — Literary Lab

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis

Spatial History Project — Mapping the Republic of Letters — Literary Lab

Home
About CESTA
CONTACT

Filter

All

Events

News

Uncategorized

Individual CESTA Lab Links

Literary Lab

Mapping the Republic of Letters

Spatial History Project

Events of Interest

CESTA Presents: The e-Diasporas Atlas with Dana Diminescu – Oct. 22nd

Posted in: 
Events

Visualizing the Dynamic Universe – Friday Oct. 5th

Posted in: 
Events

Free Python and ArcGIS seminars on 8/30/2012

Posted in: 
Events

Mapping the Republic of Letters + CKCC Presentation – Wed. Aug. 29th at 9am

Posted in: 
Events

CESTA Presents: Thomas Nygren – Digital History and the Construction of Knowledge

Posted in: 
Events

Mapping People Symposium at the University of Redlands

Posted in: 
Events

Project Updates and News

Job Announcement: GIS Software Developer, Digital Library Systems and Services, Stanford

Posted in: 
News

Job Announcement: Geospatial Instruction and Reference Specialist, Branner Library

Posted in: 
News

Job Announcement: Academic Technology Specialist

Posted in: 
News

Welcome to the new CESTA Blog!

Posted in: 
News

A Decade of Fire in Western Australia

Posted in: 
News

Tags
ArcGIS

California

CESTA

CESTA Presents

China

courses

diaspora

digital history

digital methods

Gephi

Holocaust

Illustrator

InfoViz

Javascript

job announcements

knowledge

KQED

Lab Announcements

mapping

Mapping the Republic of Letters

national parks

open house

ORBIS

Python

Rome

Spatial History Project

SSHW

Stanford Humanities Center

storyboarding

symposium

Time + Networks

Visualizing Complexity

workshop

Yellow River

Recent Posts

Application Deadline Extended to Oct. 26th! Paid Undergraduate Research Positions for the Spatial History Project

CESTA Presents: The e-Diasporas Atlas with Dana Diminescu – Oct. 22nd

Visualizing the Dynamic Universe – Friday Oct. 5th

Free Python and ArcGIS seminars on 8/30/2012

Mapping the Republic of Letters + CKCC Presentation – Wed. Aug. 29th at 9am

Recent Comments
Archives

October 2012

August 2012

July 2012

June 2012

May 2012

	                	Application Deadline Extended to Oct. 26th! Paid Undergraduate Research Positions for the Spatial History Project	                

Application deadline has been extended to 5pm, Friday Oct. 26th!

The Spatial History Project is now accepting applications for paid undergraduate Research Assistants. We are currently hiring independent and motivated students to engage in original research and can positively impact the following research projects (please note that some positions will begin immediately this Autumn while others will begin in Winter 2013). Instructions for applying follow the project descriptions. Pay rate is $15 per hour.

Enchanting the Desert

Enchanting the Desert uses the 1930s narrated photographic slideshows of Zion and Grand Canyon National Parks made by Henry Peabody as its launching point.  While the immediate goal of the project is to make these slideshows accessible in a multi-media, online format, one of its deeper goals is to interpret Peabody’s landscape images from the perspective of contemporary 1930s geographical theorist Richard Hartshorne.  To do this, a series of viewing options, or modes, will be constructed, each augmenting the original slideshows in ways that meaning – both from human stories and fauna population data – changes the experience of viewing the slideshows.

The project seeks one undergraduate Research Assistant, whose skillsets and interests should include some or most of the following:

- History of photography

- Historical geography of U.S. National Parks

- Excellent library/archive research skills

- Desire to think creatively about how to wed geographical information with photographs

- Software: web design, GIS, Photoshop, Illustrator

- Desire to create new online environments

- Excitement for careful, close reading of slideshow narratives

- Field biology (especially historical fauna survey data)

- Folklore

Work on this project will begin at the onset of Winter Quarter 2013.

Forming Selves

Forming Selves: The Creation of Child Psychiatry from Red Vienna to the Third Reich and Abroad is a new project led by Prof. Edith Sheffer that traces linkages among the forerunners of child psychiatry from Vienna in the 1930s through the 1940s, outlining connections among the diaspora and those who stayed during the rise of Nazi Germany. With the advent of the Third Reich, many who were Jewish and politically opposed to the regime fled Vienna and established their own practices in England, the United States, and beyond, leading the field of child development. Meanwhile, a cohort of psychologists and psychiatrists remained in Vienna, a number of whom took leading roles in the Nazi euthanasia program, overseeing the murders of hundreds of disabled children. This research will offer an international history of a discipline that is usually examined within national networks or within discrete schools of thought, following social as well as intellectual ties in the field. It will also consider how experiences under Nazism and the Second World War may have shaped the trajectory of child psychiatry in different places, with alternate priorities such as war orphans, clinical research, and Nazi eugenics resulting in divergent approaches.

Forming Selves seeks one undergraduate Research Assistant to build a database of these practitioners and their professional and personal connections to one another, and subsequently create network visualizations to explore interesting and surprising connections within this community. Preferred candidates will adeptly investigate and interpret primary source documents. A strong reading knowledge of German is preferred. Experience with network graphing software like Gephi and Pajek is a plus. Candidate should list any technical skills in their application and demonstrate a strong interest in learning new tools and advancing work in the digital humanities. Work on this project will begin at the onset of Winter Quarter 2013.

Geography of the Post

Geography of the Post maps the growth of the United States Postal System in the late nineteenth century into a vast, continent-spanning communications network. The project explores the network on its western periphery: where it spread, how it operated, and its role in shaping the space and place of the region. Geography of the Post uses the postal system as a way to explore larger topics in American history, including community development, the character and reach of the federal government in the nineteenth century, and how flows of information tied together the social, political, and economic fabric of the West.

Geography of the Post seeks one undergraduate Research Assistant for the Autumn and Winter Quarters (with possible extension into the spring and summer) to help map the U.S. Post. The RA will first use historical documents to compile a database of offices, postmasters, and carrier routes. They will then analyze locations, people, and connections in order to map the contours of the system. The RA will use a wide variety of technical tools: database creation and management, geospatial analysis using ArcGIS, network applications such as Gephi, and data visualization through Processing and Adobe Creative Suite. Prior training is not required, but candidates should include any technical expertise in their application and must demonstrate interest in history or other relevant fields such as geography, political science, economics, sociology, or communications. Work on this project will begin immediately.

The Forma Urbis Romae Project

In 1901, Rodolfo Lanciani produced a cartographic masterpiece that still remains the most comprehensive map of the archeological history of any city in the world. The Forma Urbis Romae is an extremely accurate map, produced on 46 plates and measuring a massive 25 ft across when fully assembled. Using an innovative graphical system of layers and linked data (much like a modern GIS), the map simultaneously captures several epoch’s of Rome’s urban fabric over a 2,000 year period. The Lanciani map is the definitive archeological reference for Rome even though it is some 110 years out of date.

Our research intends to critically examine, update and republish the map as an interactive website and mobile app that will also serve as a way to experience and understand Rome’s 2,000 year spatial history. The result will reveal an image of the city in a way that has never been seen in its entirety. Potential RA responsibilities are to remaster and republish the Lanciani map in digital form, to document and analyze historic maps and texts to examine how Rome has evolved from antiquity to today, and to identify errors, omissions, and gaps in the 1901 map. The research offers potential inquiry into architectural history, archeological discovery, and urban morphology, among other fields. RAs may gain experience in GIS, cartographic design, Adobe Illustrator, textual analysis, Italian language, and web/mobile development and will have the freedom to explore independent research questions within the project framework.

Project collaborators will be located off-campus, and candidates must be able to take initiative and have strong organizational and communication skills. Work on this project will begin Winter Quarter 2013.

See http://nolli.uoregon.edu and http://vasi.uoregon.edu for examples of our previous work.

The Law of the Antebellum Frontier

Using a massive amount of U.S. Census and city atlas data, The Law of the Antebellum Frontier project is working to demonstrate the patterns of migration on the frontier, both into and out of St. Louis, of numerous sub-populations of interest, including both the free black and slave populations present during this era. As St. Louis was considered a “staging area” for those who were travelling further west, it is essential that this critical city of the frontier is mapped with greater detail than ever before.

The Law of the Antebellum Frontier seeks one undergraduate Research Assistant, to start Winter Quarter 2013 and continue through Spring Quarter (with a possible extension into summer). The Research Assistant will be responsible for building historical GIS data layers to represent St. Louis in the mid-nineteenth century, using historic map sources and census records. Tasks will include georeferencing historic maps, digitizing features in ArcGIS, and building databases. Data visualizations produced by the Research Assistant in ArcGIS, Tableau, and other software will provide new avenues for historical inquiry.

Experience working with GIS is not required, but a strong interest in developing new technical skills is a must. Candidates should have a demonstrated interest in history or allied fields in the social sciences. Project collaborators will be located off-campus, and candidates must be able to take initiative and have strong organizational and communication skills. Work on this project will begin Winter Quarter 2013.

Reconstructing California Conservation History

In an era of environmental change, it is important to assess our legacy on the landscape and to understand the efficacy of our efforts to conserve natural resources. This is a challenging task, as the information on conservation history is scattered through multiple sources, organizations, and governance levels. It is also an exciting task, as the data assembled through this project will provide us with the means to assess the relative success of our conservation actions. We have been working on this project for a almost a year now, and several directions have been taken that include: changes in land cover and climate and how they relate to land acquisition; analysis of biodiversity and open space acquisition; analysis of transportation and urban development and its relation with open space acquisition; and analysis of redwood logging and its relationship with park establishment and carbon stocks.

Moving forward, the project seeks a motivated and independent Research Assistant to: (1) aid in the larger project and investigate the acquisition and establishment dates of open space properties throughout California; and (2) develop an independent project that looks into the economics of conservation land acquisition. This entails (1) researching open space properties acquisition (typically online), (2) contacting managing agencies to request information via email and phone, (3) learning GIS, and (4) data entry and analysis within a GIS framework. The Research Assistant will see their work integrated into a larger state-wide effort to answer important questions on the effectiveness of protected areas to preserve natural resources in California. Work will begin immediately.

Western Railroads

Western Railroads is a new project that augments and builds on the ongoing research of Richard White by tapping into the collective knowledge of railroad enthusiasts and local historians. An interactive website developed in partnership with an established web development firm will make a large collection of historic photographs depicting railroads available to the railroad enthusiast community for keyword tagging/textual description and placement on a webmap. Additionally, the website will feature historic maps from the David Rumsey collection, and ask participants to mark key map features–digitizing those features in a way that makes them usable for both the enthusiast and scholarly communities.

The undergraduate Research Assistant will help get this effort off the ground by spearheading an outreach effort with railroad enthusiast communities and local historical societies; organize content for the site as necessary, including using GIS to place (geo-rectify) historic maps in digital coordinate space; and develop concepts and mock-ups for the web interface. Preliminary site designs developed by the Research Assistant will help answer such questions as: what sorts of features will users be asked to identify, and how will this data be recorded; what features should be included in the interface; and how can the site award helpful contributors and build community amongst rail enthusiasts and scholars?

Preferred candidates will have a a theoretical/conceptual interest and some background in social media, website development, and game design. Candidates with an interest in environmental history, U.S. history, human-environment relations, and related social science disciplines are encouraged to apply. Experience with web technologies (HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript) is a definite plus, but not required, as is an interest in learning geographic information systems (GIS) and information visualization software like Tableau. We seek organized self-starters who can make a commitment to work through the academic year. The position is only open to current Stanford undergraduate students and will begin immediately.

Year of the Bay

Year of the Bay is a new project that seeks to enrich environmental history research on the San Francisco Bay Area, deriving information contained in photographs, art, maps and other sources, by directly engaging the public — or crowdsourcing local knowledge. The project will work with an established web development firm to make a formidable digital collection of photographs, art, maps and other materials available to the public in the form of an interactive interface that allows users to geo-tag and contextualize primary source materials and add their own historical materials to an online archive.

The undergraduate Research Assistant will help develop materials and concepts in this project’s early stages; reach out to local historical societies, museums, libraries, and community organizations; help organize and participate in events online and in real life to encourage community engagement in the project; help organize historical materials to be placed on the site; and analyze the results of the crowdsourcing, developing and testing hypotheses regarding different crowdsourcing outcomes achieved through a variety of user interfaces, including game-like structures for public participation.

Preferred candidates will have a theoretical/conceptual interest and some background in social media, website development, and game design. Also important is an interest in environmental history and the use of maps, photographs, and other primary source documents. Technical proficiency in website design (HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript) and web mapping (OpenLayers, Google Maps API) is a plus, but not required. The Research Assistant will collaborate with researchers located off campus, and will be independently motivated and well organized, with excellent communication skills. The position is only open to current Stanford undergraduate students and will begin immediately.

TO APPLY

Current Stanford undergraduate students are eligible to apply, including those who qualify for Federal Work Study funding. Pay rate is $15 per hour. Please note that Stanford restricts the total number of hours worked by each student during any one quarter to ten. Interested applicants should submit the following to Matt Bryant (mattbryant.stanford@gmail.com) by 
5pm on Friday, Oct. 26th:

Cover Letter
 outlining your strengths and specifying which project(s) you’re interested in working with and why

Resume
 highlighting relevant skills and qualifications

Sample of Work
 best reflecting the skills you would bring to the team (e.g. class paper, artwork, hyperlink to a web-based project)

Please feel free to direct any questions about these positions to Matt Bryant in the meantime.

Uncategorized

Shortlink

	                	CESTA Presents: The e-Diasporas Atlas with Dana Diminescu – Oct. 22nd	                

Dana Diminescu, The e-Diasporas Atlas

Monday, October 22, 3:00 p.m.

Wallenberg Hall, 4th Floor, Gold & Honey

The e-Diasporas Atlas was incubated and developed in the framework of the Fondation Maison des Sciences de l’Homme ICT Migrations program. Initiated and coordinated by Dana Diminescu, the project introduced digital methods into research on diasporas. This was made possible by the R&D innovations of Mathieu Jacomy and thanks to the technical coordination and training provided by Matthieu Renault. Some eighty researchers from diverse disciplines, laboratories and countries took part in the project. Several partners also contributed to its success: the Institut National de l’Audiovisuel, the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique through its Migrinter laboratory, the Institut Mines-Telecom, Linkfluence and the design studio Incandescence. The e-Diasporas Atlas received funding from the Agence National de la Recherche (STIC Content and Interaction), the École d’ingénieurs Telecom ParisTech and the Fondation Maison des Sciences de l’Homme Paris.

Dana Diminescu, a practicing sociologist, is an associate professor at TelecomParisTech. Her empirical work has enabled her to approach a variety of fields: e.g. uses of mobile telephone and voice IT, the Internet (tailing, archiving, mapping of the Web), and identifying digitalization technologies and m-transactions by migrants. Since 2003 she has been the scientific director of the research program ICT Migrations at the Fondation Maison des Sciences de l’Homme, Paris. This program, which she launched ten years ago, has made major contributions to the theorization and analysis of the “connected migrant”.

Events

Shortlink

	                	Visualizing the Dynamic Universe – Friday Oct. 5th	                

Please join Visualizing Complexity & Uncertainty, a Theodore and Frances Geballe Research Workshop sponsored by the Stanford Humanities Center, 
this Friday, October 5, 12:00 pm,
 in the 
Stanford Humanities Center Boardroom
 for 
“Visualizing the Dynamic Universe”
, the first talk/discussion of our fall series, 
Revelations of Outer and Inner Space: Visualizing Complex Data Systems in the Natural Sciences
.

“Visualizing the Dynamic Universe”
 presented by Enrico Ramirez-Ruiz and Morgan MacLeod of the Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics at the University of California Santa Cruz.

Description: Empirically, astrophysical objects are not amenable to experimental studies; we rely on careful observations rather than laboratory experimentation to obtain data. Theoretically, astrophysical objects are rarely amenable to simple physical models; we rely increasingly on computational methods to understand the complicated physics that governs the phenomena we observe. With the advancement of computer technology and numerical algorithms, complex astrophysical phenomena are now accessible via simulation almost as if they were accessible via experiments in the laboratory. But humans are visual creatures. Numbers alone do little to feed our understanding and intuition. In our talk we will share our approach to visualization and the discuss the ways it informs our research in theoretical astrophysics. Through an iterative process of simulation and comparison to observational data, we work toward an understanding of astrophysical phenomena that is both qualitative and quantitative. Visual representations of our data form the essential link in this iterative process; they are much more than a final product. In our projects with OpenLab — a collaboration between UCSC artists and astronomers – we have been working to fully realize the scientific and aesthetic potential of these simulations.

Friday, October 5, 12:00 pm

Stanford Humanities Center Boardroom

A light lunch will be served.

Events

Shortlink

	                	Free Python and ArcGIS seminars on 8/30/2012	                

The next Live Training Seminar, “Creating Python Toolboxes Using ArcGIS 10.1,” will air on Thursday, August 30th. Join us for this 60-minute seminar to learn how to simplify the process of creating and maintaining custom geoprocessing tools.

http://training.esri.com/
Gateway/index.cfm?fa=seminars.
viewDetails&course_id=184
  3 individual times are available to attend.

In addition to this seminar there are a number of virtual campus courses about Python and ArcGIS.   You’ll find these virtual campus courses at the Esri training site as well.

Events

Shortlink

	                	Mapping the Republic of Letters + CKCC Presentation – Wed. Aug. 29th at 9am	                

Greetings,

You are cordially invited to the following presentation:

Wednesday, August 29, 9:00 a.m.

Gold & Honey, Wallenberg Hall (Building 160), Fourth Floor

Mapping the Republic of Letters partner, Circulation of knowledge and learned practices in the 17
th
 century Dutch Republic’ (CKCC) 
http://ckcc.huygens.
knaw.nl/
 will demonstrate a beta version of the CKCC Epistolarium. The Epistolarium is a virtual research environment containing some 20,000 scholarly letters from the period 1594-1707, enriched with mapping and graphing tools for searching and analysis. At the same meeting, the Early Modern Time and Networks team will demonstrate the current state of KNOT, a data exploration tool for humanities scholars. This will be an informal technical discussion. Guests are welcome.

Events

Shortlink

	                	CESTA Presents: Thomas Nygren – Digital History and the Construction of Knowledge	                

Please join us this week for a CESTA Presents event:

Thomas Nygren, Dr of History and Education, HUMlab, Umeå University Sweden

 “Digital History and the Construction of Knowledge”

 Wednesday, August 29th, 3-4pm

 Gold & Honey, Wallenberg Hall (Building 160), Fourth Floor

In the presentation I will present results from a finished study on incorporating digitized sources in history teaching, “Students Using the Tool of the Professional Digital Historian: Problems and Possibilities in History Teaching.” This study highlights problems and possibilities in attitudes of upper secondary-school students and their historical thinking when they are assigned the use of a historical demographic database.

I will also present some preliminary findings from a second study, “Students Choosing and Using Analogue and Digital Databases: Knowledge Construction with Primary Sources.” This study highlights how the same students write history when assigned work with traditional archives in comparison to digital archives.

Thirdly, and most importantly, I would like to listen to the audience feedback and test some ideas on how the spatial turn in history might affect knowledge construction – and how this could (and should) be studied.

***********

Doors and elevator will be unlocked for this event. Please contact Matt Bryant at mpbrynat@stanford.edu or 650-721-1385 if you have any questions.

cesta.stanford.edu

Events

Shortlink

	                	Census Geospatial Data Workshop at Stanford	                

You’ve got data,

CAN YOU MAP IT?

Attend the

CENSUS GEOSPATIAL DATA WORKSHOP

to find out how!

Wednesday, August 22, 2012

2pm to 4pm

Stanford Green Library, IC Classroom

Please RSVP http://goo.gl/u5eln Questions? Contact Kris Kasianovitz, krisk11@stanford.edu

These geospatial data resources will be covered during the workshop.

Uncategorized

Shortlink

	                	Job Announcement: GIS Software Developer, Digital Library Systems and Services, Stanford	                

GIS Software Developer, Digital Library Systems and Services, Stanford University Libraries

Job ID

 49000

Job Location

 University Libraries

Job Category

 Information Technology Services

Salary

 4P3

Date Posted

 Aug 3, 2012

GIS Software Developer, Digital Library Systems and Services

This position is double posted at the 4P3 and 4P4 levels. 

Stanford University Libraries and Academic Information Resources (SULAIR) is building an increasingly rich and complex set of geospatial information services and resources to support research, teaching and learning.

The GIS Software Developer will lead the technical effort to develop and support the GIS applications and infrastructure for SULAIR’s GIS programs, resources and patrons. The GIS developer will sit within and report to Digital Library Systems and Services (DLSS) unit within SULAIR, and work intimately with and directly support the programmatic activities of the Branner Earth Sciences Library, as well as closely related units within SULAIR and beyond.

RESPONSIBILITIES

GIS Infrastructure Management and Administration (60%)

• Help implement and manage SULAIR’s GIS infrastructure; this includes administration of specialized GIS applications including GeoServer, GeoNetwork, ArcGIS Server, and Open GeoPortal Rails (
http://github.com/sul-dlss/
ogp-rails
)

• Develop software for the import, management and remediation of Stanford’s GIS data collections

• Work with SULAIR’s server, database and network administrators to provision the necessary computing systems to support GIS services, including ESRI components in GIS labs.

Web Application Development (30%)

• Adopt, adapt, develop and maintain software to provide a Web-based geospatial discovery and access portal, using open source technologies in an inter-institutional, community-based, development effort.

• Integrate digital mapping and GIS data discovery into a GIS discovery portal and/or SearchWorks, SULAIR’s overarching discovery layer.

• Integrate (either directly or by supporting integration efforts of others on campus) additional services into SULAIR’s GIS environment, supporting mapping and georeferencing applications, novel spatial visualization tools, mashups, and integration of gazetteers and third party GIS-based API’s.

Community Participation, Leadership and Consulting (10%)

• Play an active role in higher education and GIS researcher community; represent Stanford in this community and the development of open source and consortial service efforts. Consult with technologists on campus about the best method to realize their projects’ GIS technical goals, and adapt SULAIR’s GIS services and infrastructure accordingly.

Demonstrated Expertise Required In:

• GIS applications, tools and resources through at least three years of hands-on management and development in a GIS environment. Familiarity includes direct experience with both raster and vector resources, geodatabase configuration and management, and common API’s and tools (ArcSDE, ArcGIS Server, GeoServer, OpenLayers, OGC standards, Google Earth APIs etc.).

• Software engineering in Web-, solr-lucene and database-backed application environments, and experience in contributing to and/or defining the technical architecture of complex systems.

• Ruby, and Ruby on Rails, both for application development and in engineering an enhanced framework, including plug-ins, engines and gems, for developing and deploying applications. Experience with other MVC frameworks or dynamic languages will be considered.

• Scripting technologies such as Perl, PHP, Python, etc., or a demonstrated ability to learn them quickly. In-depth knowledge of HTML and related website development technologies and software (especially CSS and AJAX). Familiarity with Java and object-oriented programming and concepts is desired.

• Relational database design and management. Experience both in the administration of and implementing database applications for Oracle, Postgres, PostGIS, ArcSDE and/or MySQL.

• Networking and systems integration in a heterogeneous hardware and software (Linux, Windows) environment. Experience with imaging virtualized environments (e.g., VMWare) is preferred.

• XML and related tools and technologies (e.g., XML schema, schema management and databases, XSLT, X-forms)

• Writing solid, simple, elegant code both independently and in a team-programming environment and within schedule limitations.

• Working collaboratively on a project from specification to launch and production operation; and working with multiple levels of staff, and colleagues at peer institutions and open source communities.

• Agile software development practices and test driven development principles and methods, as well as best practices for software development overall.

• Curious, innovative, dynamic and thorough approach to software engineering; interest in participating in community-based, open source projects, and the technical, social and communication capabilities to do so effectively.

• Strong verbal and written communication skills.

• Masters degree or equivalent professional experience in Geographic Information Systems, Computer Science, Information Science or related field.

• 5-7 years of relevant experience for the 4P3 level. Seven or more years relevant experience for at the 4P4 level.

• Prior success in working in an academic environment desired

***

Julie Sweetkind-Singer

Assistant Director of Geospatial, Cartographic and Scientific Data & Services

Head Librarian, Branner Earth Sciences Library & Map Collections

Stanford University

397 Panama Mall; MC 2211

Stanford, CA 94305

(650)725-1102

News

Shortlink

	                	Mapping People Symposium at the University of Redlands	                

Hello, colleagues. We’d like to invite you, and any of your undergrad or grad students, to attend our 1-day Mapping People Symposium. This will take place on
Wednesday, October 31
st
 at the University of Redlands.  The focus of the day is the use of maps and mapping – in any format – to address social and cultural information specifically.  
Ian Gregory
 will be our keynote speaker.

Take this chance to share your projects and ideas, and help build our regional network. There are opportunities to give a full talk (15 minutes), a lightning talk (5 minutes), or share a poster. Awards will be given to the top undergrad and grad student talk and poster.

Please share this poster around your department, and forward this email to others on your campus who may be interested.

There is no fee to attend, but space is limited, so please register soon.  All info can be found at 
http://www.spatial.
redlands.edu/lens/
mappingpeople/
.

Best,

Diana

___________________________

Diana Stuart Sinton

Director of Spatial Curriculum and Research

University of Redlands

Redlands, CA 92374

909.362.7888
 voice/cell

diana_sinton@redlands.edu

http://lens.redlands.edu

http://dianamaps.com

Events

Shortlink

	                	CESTA End of Summer Quarter Event	                

CESTA End of Summer Quarter Event

Friday, August 24th, 3:45 – 5pm

CESTA Lab, 
 Fourth Floor, Wallenberg Hall (Building 160)

You’re invited to join us at the Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis (CESTA) Friday, August 24, from 3:45 to 5pm, to view, interact, and discuss original research developed this quarter by members of our lab community. Researchers from the Literary Lab, the Mapping the Republic of Letters project, and the Spatial History Project will be on hand to discuss their work, and will provide a first-hand look at the tools and visual representations that form the core of our work. Wine, cheese, and other snacks will be available.

research projects exhibited include:

Animal City, Chile’s Aquaculture Industry, Early Modern Time & Networks, Rebooting History, Reconstructing California Conservation History, Richard Pryor’s Peoria, Shaping the West, Visualizing Dramatic Networks, Voltaire’s Network

Doors and elevator will be unlocked for these events. Please contact Matt Bryant if you have any questions 650-721-1385, or mpbryant@stanford.edu

Events

Shortlink

←
 Older

Copyright © 2012  

            Powered by 
Shaken Grid Premium

