

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis |

Skip to content

Skip to navigation

WebAuth Login

SUNetID Login

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis

Search form

Search 

Navigation menu

Main menu

Home

About Us

Updates

Student Programs

Research Projects

Events

Resources

 Home 

CESTA: Applying technologies across the Humanities and Social Sciences to enhance our understanding of the world

Stanford’s internationally-renowned Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis (CESTA) is a premier research Center in the Digital Humanities. It is a pioneering research hub, where we apply digital tools and methods to create new knowledge in interdisciplinary humanistic inquiry, changing our understanding of the world, and setting a standard for best practice in all our endeavors.

CESTA is open to all persons concerned with the study and teaching of Digital Humanities, in that field’s most capacious definition. Our Center welcomes researchers and interested participants from all walks of academic life, including, but not limited to, faculty and academic-related staff, postdoctoral fellows, graduates and undergraduates, independent scholars, and technological experts. We aim to encourage an environment of collegiality and collaboration, diversity, inclusion, and academic freedom for all participants.

Further, we explicitly affirm the right of students and junior faculty to receive supportive, professional mentoring that respects their intellectual freedom and personal integrity. We expect anyone coming to CESTA, or representing CESTA, to abide by and promote these values. We, like other organizations such as the Medieval Academy of America and the Society for Medieval Feminist Scholarship, deplore unprofessional practices and unethical behavior and we shall not tolerate any form of harassment or abuse, so that together we may build a stronger, more welcoming, considerate, and equal community.

More about CESTA

@cesta_stanford

Tweets by cesta_stanford

Follow @cesta_stanford

Research Internships

Undergraduate Research Interns are at the heart of CESTA's community, working closely with Stanford faculty, staff, and researchers on humanistic and interdisciplinary projects.

Learn more about our Research Internship Program
Apply to be a Research Intern

Updates

Dec 3 2018

Leading DH scholar Anna Foka visiting CESTA 

Nov 7 2018

CESTA researchers unearth new insights about Virginia Woolf's press 

Oct 25 2018

Tom Mullaney Wins AHA Book Prize

    See more updates  

Featured Events

Nov

30

Climbing Snowy Aetna: antiquity, travel, and the collecting of knowledge

Building 110, Room 112

12:15pm

    See more events  

Subscribe

Subscribe to CESTA Updates

Connect

Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube

CESTA is committed to shaping future humanities research and teaching through openness to new digital technologies, scholarly questions and collaborative opportunities.

Contact Us

Fourth Floor, Wallenberg Hall (Bldg. 160)
450 Serra Mall
Stanford Mail Code: 2055
Stanford, CA 94305-2055
Phone: 
650-721-1385
cesta_stanford@stanford.edu
Campus Map

Stanford Home

Maps & Directions

Search Stanford

Emergency Info

Terms of Use

Privacy

Copyright

Trademarks

Non-Discrimination

Accessibility

© 
Stanford University
, 
Stanford
, 
California

94305
.

