

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis |

Skip to content

Skip to navigation

SUNetID Login

SUNetID Login

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis

Search form

Search 

Navigation menu

Main menu

Home

About Us

Updates

Student Programs

Research Projects

Events

Resources

 Home 

Research Internships

Undergraduate Research Interns are at the heart of CESTA's community, working closely with Stanford faculty, staff, and researchers on humanistic and interdisciplinary projects.

Learn more about our Research Internship Program
Read stories by CESTA summer students

Updates

Apr 18 2020

CESTA research and COVID 19

Apr 15 2020

Message from the Director

Jan 21 2020

Kudos to Prof. Tom Mullaney, Library of Congress fellow

    See more updates  

Upcoming Events

Apr

28

CESTA Seminar | L. Stokes "Murder, Metadata, and Moral persuasion: early modern discourses on..."

broadcast live via zoom

12:00pm

May

05

CESTA Seminar | F. Favino "Mapping Galileo's legacy: the 'Borelli Galaxy' project"

broadcast live via zoom

12:00pm

May

12

CESTA Seminar | B. Albritton

broadcast live via zoom

12:00pm

    See more events  

Who we are

Stanford’s internationally-renowned Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis (CESTA) is a premier research Center in the Digital Humanities. Our goal is to be a pioneering interdisciplinary research hub that leverages Stanford's complementary strengths in humanities and computational sciences 
to create new knowledge in humanistic inquiry, change our understanding of the world, and set a standard for best practices in our fields. 

We are
 made up of dozens of thinkers, students, researchers, and practitioners of all levels at Stanford and beyond. Our common vision is to explore, critique, and advance digital methods and design (i.e., spatial, textual and network analysis, digital publishing, archive curation, data visualization, annotation, artificial intelligence, etc.) across a range of fields including history, literature, biology, archeology,  earth sciences and more.

Read more about CESTA

CESTA Statement of Ethics
CESTA is open to all persons concerned with the study and teaching of Digital Humanities, in that field’s most capacious definition. Our Center welcomes researchers and interested participants from all walks of academic life, including, but not limited to, faculty and academic-related staff, postdoctoral fellows, graduates and undergraduates, independent scholars, and technological experts. We aim to encourage an environment of collegiality and collaboration, diversity, inclusion, and academic freedom for all participants.

	Further, we explicitly affirm the right of students and junior faculty to receive supportive, professional mentoring that respects their intellectual freedom and personal integrity. We expect anyone coming to CESTA, or representing CESTA, to abide by and promote these values so that together we may build a stronger, more welcoming, considerate, and equal community.

Subscribe to the CESTA Digest

Click here to subscribe to the CESTA Digest

CESTA Digest Archive

Connect

Facebook

Twitter

Instagram

Youtube

CESTA is committed to shaping future humanities research and teaching through openness to new digital technologies, scholarly questions and collaborative opportunities.

Contact Us

Fourth Floor, Wallenberg Hall (Bldg. 160)
450 Jane Stanford Way
Stanford Mail Code: 2055
Stanford, CA 94305-2055
Phone: 
650-721-1385
cesta_stanford@stanford.edu
Campus Map

Stanford Home

Maps & Directions

Search Stanford

Emergency Info

Terms of Use

Privacy

Copyright

Trademarks

Non-Discrimination

Accessibility

© 
Stanford University
, 
Stanford
, 
California

94305
.

