

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis |

Skip to content

Skip to navigation

SUNetID Login

SUNetID Login

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis

Search form

Search 

Navigation menu

Main menu

Home

About Us

Updates

Student Programs

Research Projects

Events

Resources

Videos

Carousel Start

What is CESTA?

CESTA is Stanford’s digital humanities research hub, where students and faculty bring the power of humanistic investigation together with new technology to document, analyze and understand the changing human experience.

LEARN MORE

Life in Quarantine

A new project from the Poetic Media Lab is creating a public historical archive documenting personal experiences during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Visit the new site

Writing about Epidemic

The Literary Lab has launched three new text analysis projects related to epidemics, confinement and the personification of illness.

Read more

2021 Winter-Spring Seminar Series

Our Winter-Spring seminar series is now underway—come learn from our affiliates and contributors about DH perspectives on the history of the Atlantic world, the experience of enslaved and freed persons, linguistic diversity, and more.

Learn More Here

Data Practices: October 2nd & 9th, 2020

CESTA is excited to announce 'Data Practices:' two online trans-disciplinary events exploring how data science, digital humanities, and libraries address sources, methods, and meaning.

More information, registration, and CFP

‹
Previous Slide
›
Next Slide

Carousel End

 Home 

In the Spotlight

Director's Message

Announcing the Digital Humanities Long View, a joint seminar series organized by UCL DH and CESTA

Prof. Elaine Treharne: Near and Far: Medieval Manuscripts Through Digital Time and Space

Tweets by cesta_stanford

Follow @cesta_stanford

Who we are

We are a diverse community of faculty, students, researchers, and practitioners. Through collaboration with partners across campus, across the Americas, and across the world, our research investigates pressing questions about human history, experience and endeavor.

We explore places, global spaces, texts, textual artefacts, data visualization, digital curation, preservation and display, linked data and interoperability, and sustainability. As a scholarly community CESTA supports and encourages cutting-edge work across the humanities and the interpretative social sciences.

Read more about CESTA

Recent News

Apr 16 2021

New book by Cameron Blevins

Apr 14 2021

Molly Taylor-Poleskey awarded NEH Grant

Mar 19 2021

New article by Visiting Scholar Dr. Thomas Smits

    See more updates  

Research Internships

Undergraduate Research Interns are at the heart of CESTA's community, working closely with Stanford faculty, staff, and researchers on humanistic and interdisciplinary projects.

Learn more about our Research Internship Program
Read the CESTA Summer 2020 Research Anthology
Introducing our Spring 2021 Interns

Upcoming Events

Apr

30

Carpentries @ Stanford - Python Images and Data Science

Virtual Zoom (will be distributed to...

9:00am

May

04

Nora Barakat (Stanford) and David Joseph Wrisley (NYU Abi Dhabi) on "OpenGulf: Creating Digital Research Infrastructures for Gulf Studies"

Online via Zoom

12:00pm

May

11

Marcelo Balaban (University of Brasilia) on "Counting Images: Creating a Database of Black Characters from Imperial Rio de Janeiro's Illustrated Press"

Online via Zoom

12:00pm

Watch Recorded Talks

CESTA Statement of Ethics
CESTA is open to all persons concerned with the study and teaching of Digital Humanities, in that field’s most capacious definition. Our Center welcomes researchers and interested participants from all walks of academic life, including, but not limited to, faculty and academic-related staff, postdoctoral fellows, graduates and undergraduates, independent scholars, and technological experts. We aim to encourage an environment of collegiality and collaboration, diversity, inclusion, and academic freedom for all participants.

	Further, we explicitly affirm the right of students and junior faculty to receive supportive, professional mentoring that respects their intellectual freedom and personal integrity. We expect anyone coming to CESTA, or representing CESTA, to abide by and promote these values so that together we may build a stronger, more welcoming, considerate, and equal community.

Subscribe to the CESTA Digest

Click here to subscribe to the CESTA Digest

CESTA Digest Archive

Connect

Facebook

Twitter

Instagram

Youtube

CESTA is committed to shaping future humanities research and teaching through openness to new digital technologies, scholarly questions and collaborative opportunities.

Contact Us

Fourth Floor, Wallenberg Hall (Bldg. 160)
450 Jane Stanford Way
Stanford Mail Code: 2055
Stanford, CA 94305-2055
Phone: 
650-721-1385
cesta_stanford@stanford.edu
Campus Map

Stanford Home

Maps & Directions

Search Stanford

Emergency Info

Terms of Use

Privacy

Copyright

Trademarks

Non-Discrimination

Accessibility

© 
Stanford University
, 
Stanford
, 
California

94305
.

