

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis |

Skip to content

Skip to navigation

SUNetID Login

SUNetID Login

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis

Search form

Search 

Navigation menu

Main menu

Home

About Us

Updates

Student Programs

Research Projects

Events

Resources

Videos

Carousel Start

Digital Humanities Graduate Fellowship: Applications Open!

The 
Digital Humanities Graduate Fellowship
 is designed to prepare Stanford graduate students for a future where digital scholarship is the norm. Over two quarters, fellows develop their skills, learn from one another, and produce a piece of publishable scholarship which makes use of digital methods or approaches. 
Applications close 31 October 2021, 11:59PM PT.

LEARN MORE AND APPLY

2021 Fall Seminar Series

Our Fall seminar series kicks off on October 5 and continues every Tuesday at 12pm.

Learn More Here

What is CESTA?

CESTA is Stanford’s digital humanities research hub, where students and faculty bring the power of humanistic investigation together with new technology to document, analyze and understand the changing human experience.

LEARN MORE

‹
Previous Slide
›
Next Slide

Carousel End

 Home 

In the Spotlight

Destin Jenkins: "The Business of Debt: A Digital Investigation of Municipal Bonds and Inequality"

Applications Now Open for Digital Humanities Graduate Fellowship 2021-22!

NEW DATE: DH Public Lecture with Kathryn Starkey and Mae Velloso-Lyons: "Building the Global Medieval Sourcebook: Around the World in 200 Stories!"

Tweets by cesta_stanford

Follow @cesta_stanford

Who we are

We are a diverse community of faculty, students, researchers, and practitioners. Through collaboration with partners across campus, across the Americas, and across the world, our research investigates pressing questions about human history, experience and endeavor.

We explore places, global spaces, texts, textual artefacts, data visualization, digital curation, preservation and display, linked data and interoperability, and sustainability. As a scholarly community CESTA supports and encourages cutting-edge work across the humanities and the interpretative social sciences.

Read more about CESTA

Recent News

Sep 29 2021

2020-2021: The Year in Review

Jul 12 2021

Corpus Synodalium, directed by Rowan Dorin, is officially released

May 2 2021

LawText project awarded New Haven Civic Innovation Prize

    See more updates  

Research Internships

Undergraduate Research Interns are at the heart of CESTA's community, working closely with Stanford faculty, staff, and researchers on humanistic and interdisciplinary projects.

Learn more about our Research Internship Program
Read the CESTA Summer 2020 Research Anthology
Introducing our Summer 2021 Interns

Upcoming Events

Nov

02

Destin Jenkins: "The Business of Debt: A Digital Investigation of Municipal Bonds and Inequality"

Online via Zoom

12:00pm

Nov

16

Agnieszka Backman: "Reframing and Truthfulness in the Digital Repository"

Online via Zoom

12:00pm

Jan

25

NEW DATE: DH Public Lecture with Kathryn Starkey and Mae Velloso-Lyons: "Building the Global Medieval Sourcebook: Around the World in 200 Stories!"

Zoom

6:00pm

Watch Recorded Talks

CESTA Statement of Ethics
CESTA is open to all persons concerned with the study and teaching of Digital Humanities, in that field’s most capacious definition. Our Center welcomes researchers and interested participants from all walks of academic life, including, but not limited to, faculty and academic-related staff, postdoctoral fellows, graduates and undergraduates, independent scholars, and technological experts. We aim to encourage an environment of collegiality and collaboration, diversity, inclusion, and academic freedom for all participants.

	Further, we explicitly affirm the right of students and junior faculty to receive supportive, professional mentoring that respects their intellectual freedom and personal integrity. We expect anyone coming to CESTA, or representing CESTA, to abide by and promote these values so that together we may build a stronger, more welcoming, considerate, and equal community.

Subscribe to the CESTA Digest

Click here to subscribe to the CESTA Digest

CESTA Digest Archive

Connect

Facebook

Twitter

Instagram

Youtube

CESTA is committed to shaping future humanities research and teaching through openness to new digital technologies, scholarly questions and collaborative opportunities.

Contact Us

Fourth Floor, Wallenberg Hall (Bldg. 160)
450 Jane Stanford Way
Stanford Mail Code: 2055
Stanford, CA 94305-2055
Phone: 
650-721-1385
cesta_stanford@stanford.edu
Campus Map

Stanford Home

Maps & Directions

Search Stanford

Emergency Info

Terms of Use

Privacy

Copyright

Trademarks

Non-Discrimination

Accessibility

© 
Stanford University
, 
Stanford
, 
California

94305
.

