

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis

Skip to main content

Stanford University

Stanford

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis

Search

    Menu

Home
About
Director's Welcome
About CESTA

            Toggle About CESTA

History of CESTA
CESTA in Data
Contact Us
People
Our Team
Affiliated Faculty and Researchers
Affiliated Postdoctoral and Visiting Scholars
Affiliated Graduate Students
DH Graduate Fellows 21-22
External Affiliates
Undergraduate Research Interns
Research
Core Labs

            Toggle Core Labs

Chinese Railroad Workers in North America
Humanities + Design
Literary Lab
Poetic Media Lab
Spatial History Project
Text Technologies
Projects
Publications
Resources
Working Groups
For Students
Undergraduate Programs

            Toggle Undergraduate Programs

Undergraduate Research Internship Program
Digital Humanities Minor
Graduate Programs

            Toggle Graduate Programs

Graduate Certificate in the Digital Humanities
Digital Humanities Graduate Fellowship
Alumni
Events
Upcoming Events

            Toggle Upcoming Events

CESTA Digital Humanities Research Showcase 2022
CESTA Seminar Series
The Digital Humanities Long View
Past Events
Recorded Talks
News & Blog
Blog
News

Welcome to CESTA 
At CESTA, students and faculty combine the power of humanistic investigation with new technologies to document, analyze and understand the changing human experience.
About this image

CESTA DH Research Showcase 2022
Every year, the DH Graduate Fellowship supports graduate students and postdocs to produce original DH research. Join us to see the 2021-22 cohort of scholars' projects!
More information

Previous

Next

      Featured Project

The 
Senegalese Slave Liberations Project
, led by Professors Richard Roberts, Joel Cabrita, and Fatoumata Seck at Stanford, Babacar Fall and Ibrahima Seck in Senegal, and Rebecca Wall at Hamilton College, together with Joshua Goodwin at Stanford and Erica Ivins at Columbia University, is investigating slavery and  freedom in  19th-century West Africa.

How is humanities research transformed in a digital age? How can we harness the power of digitization in order to recover, preserve, and curate cultures and cultural artifacts? Like no other place on campus, we work across the boundary typically separating the humanities and technology, asking essential questions about the future of humanistic thought.

Giovanna Ceserani

Faculty Director

Read the full letter

Our Research

Learn about our core labs

Explore our research projects

Read about our working groups

For Undergraduates

Discover our internship program

Read about the work of our recent interns

Learn about the Digital Humanities Minor

For Graduates

Learn about our graduate certificate

Find out about our research fellowship

Meet our current fellows

Publications and Media

Explore our publications

Watch our recorded talks

Catch up on our recent news

EVENTS

May

24

CESTA Seminar Series

Luca Scholz: "A Distant Reading of Law Dissertations"

Date
Tuesday, May 24, 2022. 12:00pm - 1:15pm

Location
Hybrid event: in-person at CESTA and via Zoom

May

27

CESTA Digital Humanities Research Showcase 2022

Date
Friday, May 27, 2022. 8:30am - 3:00pm

Location
CESTA (Wallenberg Hall, Bldg 160), Conference Room 433A.

June

2

The Digital Humanities Long View

Jessie Loyer: "Indigenous Knowledge in Digital Humanities"

Date
Thursday, June 2, 2022. 9:00am

Location
Online, via Zoom

See more Events

NEWS & BLOGS

Announcements
Faculty

Elaine Treharne Interviewed About Perceptions of Medieval Manuscripts

CESTA affiliate and former faculty director Elaine Treharne has been interviewed by the School of Humanities and Sciences about her new book: Perceptions of Medieval Manuscripts. Read the full article here.

Awards
Faculty

Michael Penn wins National Endowment for the Humanities Grant

Congratulations to Professor Michael Penn for the award of a 2022 National Endowment for the Humanities Grant to support work on the project: 'The Church of Baghdad Project Description: Research and writing leading to a history of the Christian church in early medieval Syria, drawing on the recently published letters of Patriarch Timothy I (d.

In the News

New Publication: "Global Huck: Mapping the Cultural Work of Translations of Mark Twain’s Adventures of Huckleberry Finn"

Congratulations to Shelley Fisher Fishkin, Tsuyoshi Ishihara, Ronald Jenn, France Holger Kersten, and Selina Lai-Henderson on the publication of their work (which was in part supported by CESTA!) in the Journal of Transnational American Studies.

See More News

Tweets by cesta_stanford

Follow @cesta_stanford

Throughout my time with CESTA, I've had the opportunity to learn and work on many different things that I'm interested in, such as working with historical documents, coding music analysis programs, and graphic designing for the anthology. In each project I've been a part of, it has been exciting to see how much technological innovation has to offer for humanities research, and how interdisciplinary study can enhance collaboration from people with different backgrounds and perspectives.

Kiana Hu

Undergraduate Research Intern

CESTA is open to all persons concerned with the study and teaching of digital humanities, in that field’s most capacious definition. Our Center welcomes researchers and interested participants from all walks of academic life, including, but not limited to, faculty and academic-related staff, postdoctoral fellows, graduates and undergraduates, independent scholars, and technological experts. We aim to encourage an environment of collegiality and collaboration, diversity, inclusion, and academic freedom for all participants.

We explicitly affirm the right of students and junior faculty to receive supportive, professional mentoring that respects their intellectual freedom and personal integrity. We expect anyone coming to CESTA, or representing CESTA, to abide by and promote these values so that together we may build a stronger, more welcoming, considerate, and equal community.

About

About Us
Location
Contact
Make a Gift
Subscribe to the CESTA Newsletter

People

Our Team
Affiliated Faculty and Researchers
Affiliated Graduate Students

Connect With Us

Contact Us

Wallenberg Hall (Bldg 160), Fourth Floor

450 Jane Stanford Way

Stanford Mail Code: 2055

Stanford, CA 94305-2055

Phone:  650-721-1385

cesta_stanford@stanford.edu
Campus Map

We recognize that Stanford sits on the ancestral land of the Muwekma Ohlone Tribe. This land was and continues to be of great importance to the Ohlone people. Consistent with our values of community and inclusion, we have a responsibility to acknowledge, honor and make visible the university’s relationship to Native peoples.

CESTA is committed to shaping future humanities research and teaching through openness to new digital technologies, scholarly questions and collaborative opportunities.

SUNet Login

  Stanford
University

Stanford Home

Maps & Directions

Search Stanford

Emergency Info

Terms of Use

Privacy

Copyright

Trademarks

Non-Discrimination

Accessibility

© Stanford University.

  Stanford, California 94305.

