

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis |

Skip to content

Skip to navigation

SUNetID Login

SUNetID Login

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis

Search form

Search 

Navigation menu

Main menu

Home

About Us

Updates

Student Programs

Research Projects

Events

Resources

Videos

Carousel Start

What is CESTA?

CESTA is Stanford’s digital humanities research hub, where students and faculty bring the power of humanistic investigation together with new technology to document, analyze and understand the changing human experience.

LEARN MORE

Digital Horizons Lecture Series Launches

Digital Horizons, a new CESTA/SHC lecture series will launch on April 5, 2022, with a talk by Sylvester Johnson: "Will Intelligent Machines Become Human?"

LEARN MORE

2022 Winter Seminar Series

Our Winter seminar series kicks off on January 11 and continues every Tuesday at 12pm.

Learn More Here

‹
Previous Slide
›
Next Slide

Carousel End

 Home 

In the Spotlight

Leo Barleta: “Simulating the Past: Agent-Based Modeling and Environmental Change in Early Brazil”

DH Longview Seminar Series Launches March 10

The CESTA 2020-2021 Anthology is online!

Tweets by cesta_stanford

Follow @cesta_stanford

Who we are

We are a diverse community of faculty, students, researchers, and practitioners. Through collaboration with partners across campus, across the Americas, and across the world, our research investigates pressing questions about human history, experience and endeavor.

We explore places, global spaces, texts, textual artefacts, data visualization, digital curation, preservation and display, linked data and interoperability, and sustainability. As a scholarly community CESTA supports and encourages cutting-edge work across the humanities and the interpretative social sciences.

Read more about CESTA

Recent News

Feb 28 2022

New Publication: "Global Huck: Mapping the Cultural Work of Translations of Mark Twain’s Adventures of Huckleberry Finn"

Feb 14 2022

Isabel Benak and Giovanna Ceserani reflect on Stanford's newest sculpture

Feb 14 2022

DH Longview Seminar Series Launches March 10

    See more updates  

Research Internships

Undergraduate Research Interns are at the heart of CESTA's community, working closely with Stanford faculty, staff, and researchers on humanistic and interdisciplinary projects.

Learn more about our Research Internship Program
Read the CESTA Summer 2021 Research Anthology
Introducing our Summer 2021 Interns

Upcoming Events

Mar

01

Leo Barleta: “Simulating the Past: Agent-Based Modeling and Environmental Change in Early Brazil”

Online via Zoom

12:00pm

Mar

08

Mateusz Fafinski and Elaine Treharne: "Networks of Memory: Automating Script in Time and Space"

Online via Zoom

12:00pm

Mar

10

DH Long View: Nirmala Menon  on "Decolonizing Knowledge Infrastructures: Open Access and Multilingual Scholarly Publishing"

Online via Zoom

9:00am

Watch Recorded Talks

CESTA Statement of Ethics
CESTA is open to all persons concerned with the study and teaching of Digital Humanities, in that field’s most capacious definition. Our Center welcomes researchers and interested participants from all walks of academic life, including, but not limited to, faculty and academic-related staff, postdoctoral fellows, graduates and undergraduates, independent scholars, and technological experts. We aim to encourage an environment of collegiality and collaboration, diversity, inclusion, and academic freedom for all participants.

	Further, we explicitly affirm the right of students and junior faculty to receive supportive, professional mentoring that respects their intellectual freedom and personal integrity. We expect anyone coming to CESTA, or representing CESTA, to abide by and promote these values so that together we may build a stronger, more welcoming, considerate, and equal community.

Subscribe to the CESTA Digest

Subscribe to the CESTA Digest

CESTA Digest Archive

Connect

Twitter

Instagram

Youtube

CESTA is committed to shaping future humanities research and teaching through openness to new digital technologies, scholarly questions and collaborative opportunities.

Contact Us

Fourth Floor, Wallenberg Hall (Bldg. 160)
450 Jane Stanford Way
Stanford Mail Code: 2055
Stanford, CA 94305-2055
Phone: 
650-721-1385
cesta_stanford@stanford.edu
Campus Map

Stanford Home

Maps & Directions

Search Stanford

Emergency Info

Terms of Use

Privacy

Copyright

Trademarks

Non-Discrimination

Accessibility

© 
Stanford University
, 
Stanford
, 
California

94305
.

