

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis

Skip to main content

Stanford University

Stanford

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis

Search

      Menu

Home
About
Director's Welcome
About CESTA

            Toggle About CESTA

History of CESTA
CESTA in Data
Contact Us
People
Our Team
Affiliated Faculty and Researchers
Affiliated Postdoctoral and Visiting Scholars
Affiliated Graduate Students
DH Graduate Fellows
External Affiliates
Undergraduate Research Interns
Research
Core Labs

            Toggle Core Labs

Chinese Railroad Workers in North America
Humanities + Design
Literary Lab
Poetic Media Lab
Spatial History Project
Text Technologies
Projects
Publications

            Toggle Publications

Anthology
Resources
Working Groups
For Students
Undergraduate Programs

            Toggle Undergraduate Programs

Undergraduate Research Internship Program
Digital Humanities Minor
Graduate Programs

            Toggle Graduate Programs

Graduate Certificate in the Digital Humanities
Digital Humanities Graduate Fellowship
Alumni
Events
Upcoming Events

            Toggle Upcoming Events

CESTA Seminar Series
The Digital Humanities Long View
Past Events
Recorded Talks
News & Blog
Blog
News

Welcome to CESTA 
At CESTA, students and faculty combine the power of humanistic investigation with new technologies to document, analyze and understand the changing human experience.
About this image

Photo by 
Omar Flores
 on 
Unsplash
Introducing our Taxonomy of DH Methods and Approaches
Read about a unique feature of our new publications page: a taxonomy of methods and approaches which can be used to filter our publications
Introducing our Taxonomy of DH Methods and Approaches

Previous

Next

      Featured Project

The 
Senegalese Slave Liberations Project
, led by Professors Richard Roberts, Joel Cabrita, and Fatoumata Seck at Stanford, Babacar Fall and Ibrahima Seck in Senegal, and Rebecca Wall at Hamilton College, together with Joshua Goodwin at Stanford and Erica Ivins at Columbia University, is investigating slavery and  freedom in  19th-century West Africa.

How is humanities research transformed in a digital age? How can we harness the power of digitization in order to recover, preserve, and curate cultures and cultural artifacts? Like no other place on campus, we work across the boundary typically separating the humanities and technology, asking essential questions about the future of humanistic thought.

Giovanna Ceserani

Faculty Director

Read the full letter

Our Research

Learn about our core labs

Explore our research projects

Read about our working groups

For Undergraduates

Discover our internship program

Read about the work of our recent interns

Learn about the Digital Humanities Minor

For Graduates

Learn about our graduate certificate

Find out about our research fellowship

See the projects we've supported

Publications and Media

Explore our publications

Watch our recorded talks

Catch up on our recent news

EVENTS

January

31

CESTA Seminar Series

Maciej Kurzynski: Words Close to Heart: A Techno-Cognitive Approach to Interiority in Modern Chinese Literature

Date
Tuesday, January 31, 2023. 12:00pm - 1:15pm

Location
Wallenberg 433A

February

7

CESTA Seminar Series

Christine Philliou and Firuzan Melike Sümertaş; Hiding in Plain Sight: The İstanΠόλις  Collaborative, Reconstructing the Greek Community of 19th and early 20th century Istanbul 

Date
Tuesday, February 7, 2023. 12:00pm - 1:15pm

Location
Wallenberg 433A

February

14

CESTA Seminar Series

Fyza Parviz Jazra, Nelson Shuchmacher Endebo, and Ellis Schriefer: Building EdTech from the Inside Out: Challenges and Opportunities of EpicConnect

Date
Tuesday, February 14, 2023. 12:00pm - 1:15pm

Location
Wallenberg 433A

See more Events

NEWS & BLOGS

Announcements

Fyza Parviz (Poetic Media Lab) to present at upcoming Renaissance Society of America Virtual Conference

CESTA affiliate Fyza Parviz of the Poetic Media Lab and her collaborators will present their research at the upcoming Renaissance  Society of American Virtual Conference.  Their workshop, "John Greaves (1602-52) and His Multilingual Marginalia," will be hosted virtually on

Rowan Dorin

Announcements
Awards
Faculty

Rowan Dorin wins Digital Legal History Prize

CESTA affiliate and assistant professor of History, Rowan Dorin, has been awarded The Mary L. Dudziak Digital Legal History Prize for his database of ecclesiastical legislation, Corpus Synodalium.

Announcements

Applications now open for undergraduate research internships!

In the 2022-23 academic year, students will have the option of two program terms: Winter and Spring (a two-quarter part-time internship) or Summer (a one-quarter full-time internship). Applicants may apply to one or both of these programs. All CESTA internships are in-person and are compensated.

Tweets by cesta_stanford

Follow @cesta_stanford

Throughout my time with CESTA, I've had the opportunity to learn and work on many different things that I'm interested in, such as working with historical documents, coding music analysis programs, and graphic designing for the anthology. In each project I've been a part of, it has been exciting to see how much technological innovation has to offer for humanities research, and how interdisciplinary study can enhance collaboration from people with different backgrounds and perspectives.

Kiana Hu

Undergraduate Research Intern

CESTA is open to all persons concerned with the study and teaching of digital humanities, in that field’s most capacious definition. Our Center welcomes researchers and interested participants from all walks of academic life, including, but not limited to, faculty and academic-related staff, postdoctoral fellows, graduates and undergraduates, independent scholars, and technological experts. We aim to encourage an environment of collegiality and collaboration, diversity, inclusion, and academic freedom for all participants.

We explicitly affirm the right of students and junior faculty to receive supportive, professional mentoring that respects their intellectual freedom and personal integrity. We expect anyone coming to CESTA, or representing CESTA, to abide by and promote these values so that together we may build a stronger, more welcoming, considerate, and equal community.

About

About Us
Location
Contact
Make a Gift
Subscribe to the CESTA Newsletter

People

Our Team
Affiliated Faculty and Researchers
Affiliated Graduate Students

Connect With Us

cesta_stanford
 [at] 
stanford.edu
 (
)

Contact Us

Wallenberg Hall (Bldg 160), Fourth Floor

450 Jane Stanford Way

Stanford Mail Code: 2055

Stanford, CA 94305-2055

Phone:  650-721-1385

cesta_stanford
 [at] 
stanford.edu
Campus Map

We recognize that Stanford sits on the ancestral land of the Muwekma Ohlone Tribe. This land was and continues to be of great importance to the Ohlone people. Consistent with our values of community and inclusion, we have a responsibility to acknowledge, honor and make visible the university’s relationship to Native peoples.

CESTA is committed to shaping future humanities research and teaching through openness to new digital technologies, scholarly questions and collaborative opportunities.

SUNet Login

  Stanford
University

Stanford Home

Maps & Directions

Search Stanford

Emergency Info

Terms of Use

Privacy

Copyright

Trademarks

Non-Discrimination

Accessibility

© Stanford University.

  Stanford, California 94305.

