

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis

Skip to main content

Stanford University

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis

Stanford

Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis

Search

      Menu

Home
About
Director's Welcome
About CESTA

            Toggle About CESTA

History of CESTA
CESTA in Data
Contact Us
People
Our Team
Affiliated Faculty and Researchers
Affiliated Graduate Students
Digital Humanities Fellows
External Affiliates
Undergraduate Research Interns
2023 Undergraduate Research Interns
Research
Core Labs

            Toggle Core Labs

Chinese Railroad Workers in North America
Humanities + Design
Literary Lab
Poetic Media Lab
Spatial History Project
Text Technologies
Projects
Publications

            Toggle Publications

Anthology
Resources
Working Groups
Global Horizons of the Digital and Public Humanities
For Students
Undergraduate Programs

            Toggle Undergraduate Programs

Undergraduate Research Internship Program [Applications Open for the Summer!]]
Digital Humanities Minor
Graduate Programs

            Toggle Graduate Programs

Graduate Certificate in the Digital Humanities
Digital Humanities Fellows Program
Alumni
Events
Upcoming Events

            Toggle Upcoming Events

CESTA Seminar Series
The Digital Humanities Long View
Past Events
Recorded Talks
News & Blog
Blog
News
CESTA Open Hours

Welcome to CESTA 
At CESTA, students and faculty combine the power of humanistic investigation with new technologies to document, analyze and understand the changing human experience.
About this image

Photo by 
Omar Flores
 on 
Unsplash
Introducing our Taxonomy of DH Methods and Approaches
Read about a unique feature of our new publications page: a taxonomy of methods and approaches which can be used to filter our publications
Introducing our Taxonomy of DH Methods and Approaches

Data Feminism for AI
Join us for a lecture on "Data Feminism for AI" by Professor Lauren Klein (Emory University) on how principles around Data Feminism can be applied to conversations around AI in our current landscape.
More Information and RSVP Here

Previous

Next

Featured Project

The 
Senegalese Slave Liberations Project
, led by Professors Richard Roberts, Joel Cabrita, and Fatoumata Seck at Stanford, Babacar Fall and Ibrahima Seck in Senegal, and Rebecca Wall at Hamilton College, together with Joshua Goodwin at Stanford and Erica Ivins at Columbia University, is investigating slavery and  freedom in  19th-century West Africa.

How is humanities research transformed in a digital age? How can we harness the power of digitization in order to recover, preserve, and curate cultures and cultural artifacts? Like no other place on campus, we work across the boundary typically separating the humanities and technology, asking essential questions about the future of humanistic thought.

Giovanna Ceserani

Faculty Director

Read the full letter

Our Research

Learn about our core labs

Explore our research projects

Read about our working groups

For Undergraduates

Discover our internship program

Read about the work of our recent interns

Learn about the Digital Humanities Minor

For Graduates
Learn about our graduate certificate
Find out about our research fellowship
See the projects we've supported

Publications and Media
Explore our publications
Watch our recorded talks
Catch up on our recent news
Subscribe to the CESTA Newsletter

EVENTS

April

2

Topic modeling and BookNLP: Seeking the emotional turn in the history of eighteenth-century English fiction

Date
Tuesday, April 2, 2024. 12:00pm - 1:15pm

Location
Wallenberg Hall, Room 433A

April

8

Mellon Sawyer Seminar Series: Recuperating Forgotten Narratives (Marlene Daut)

Date
Monday, April 8, 2024. 5:30pm - 6:30pm

Location
Building 160, Wallenberg Hall

450 Jane Stanford Way, Building 160, Stanford, CA 94305

433A

April

11

Mellon Sawyer Seminar Series: Catastrophe, Data, and Transformation (Dagomar Degroot and Jessica Otis)

Date
Thursday, April 11, 2024. 5:30pm - 7:00pm

Location
Wallenberg Hall, Room 433A

See more Events

NEWS & BLOGS

Past CESTA Research Anthologies on a network web.

Blog

Reflecting on the Past and the Future of the CESTA Anthology 

On January 30th, 2024, we gathered for a luncheon to celebrate and discuss the future of the CESTA Anthology. We opened the floor to a forum of discussion.

Announcements

The 2nd Round of Applications for Summer 2024 Research Internship Are Open!

Applications for the 2nd round of 2024 Summer Undergraduate Research Program are due by April 1st. The Summer program offers stipend, or hourly pay to interns contributing to active humanities research projects.

Announcements

Introducing CESTA's 2024 Winter & Spring Undergraduate Research Interns

Introducing our Winter and Spring 2024 Undergraduate Research Interns, a community of digital humanities researchers. 

Throughout my time with CESTA, I've had the opportunity to learn and work on many different things that I'm interested in, such as working with historical documents, coding music analysis programs, and graphic designing for the anthology. In each project I've been a part of, it has been exciting to see how much technological innovation has to offer for humanities research, and how interdisciplinary study can enhance collaboration from people with different backgrounds and perspectives.

Kiana Hu

Undergraduate Research Intern

CESTA is open to all persons concerned with the study and teaching of digital humanities, in that field’s most capacious definition. Our Center welcomes researchers and interested participants from all walks of academic life, including, but not limited to, faculty and academic-related staff, postdoctoral fellows, graduates and undergraduates, independent scholars, and technological experts. We aim to encourage an environment of collegiality and collaboration, diversity, inclusion, and academic freedom for all participants.

We explicitly affirm the right of students and junior faculty to receive supportive, professional mentoring that respects their intellectual freedom and personal integrity. We expect anyone coming to CESTA, or representing CESTA, to abide by and promote these values so that together we may build a stronger, more welcoming, considerate, and equal community.

About

About Us

Location

Contact

Make a Gift

Subscribe to the CESTA Newsletter

People

Our Team

Affiliated Faculty and Researchers

Affiliated Graduate Students

Connect With Us

Check out our YouTube Channel

Connect with us on Facebook

Connect with us on Twitter

Connect with us on Instagram

cesta_stanford
 [at] 
stanford.edu
 (
Join out Mailing List
)

Contact Us

Wallenberg Hall (Bldg 160), Fourth Floor

450 Jane Stanford Way

Stanford Mail Code: 2055

Stanford, CA 94305-2055

Phone:  650-721-1385

cesta_stanford
 [at] 
stanford.edu
 (cesta_stanford[at]stanford[dot]edu)

Campus Map

We recognize that Stanford sits on the ancestral land of the Muwekma Ohlone Tribe. This land was and continues to be of great importance to the Ohlone people. Consistent with our values of community and inclusion, we have a responsibility to acknowledge, honor and make visible the university’s relationship to Native peoples.

CESTA is committed to shaping future humanities research and teaching through openness to new digital technologies, scholarly questions and collaborative opportunities.

SUNet Login

  Stanford
University

Stanford Home

Maps & Directions

Search Stanford

Emergency Info

Terms of Use

Privacy

Copyright

Trademarks

Non-Discrimination

Accessibility

© Stanford University.

  Stanford, California 94305.

